README.md, before:

# NOTICE 15 October 2025: 
The deprecated sway, budgie, and cosmic images have now been removed, see [#927](https://github.com/ublue-os/main/issues/927)

# Main

[![build-gts](https://github.com/ublue-os/main/actions/workflows/build-gts.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ublue-os/main/actions/workflows/build-gts.yml)
[![build-latest](https://github.com/ublue-os/main/actions/workflows/build-latest.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ublue-os/main/actions/workflows/build-latest.yml)

A common main image for all other uBlue images, with minimal (but important) adjustments to Fedora. <3

Deprecation Notice: Universal Blue is trimming support for intermediate images (such as those built in main) which are not used in our project's final images (Aurora, Bazzite, Bluefin).

As of September 2025, this repo will only build base, kinoite, and silverblue images.

# Documentation

- [Main website](https://universal-blue.org)
- [Documentation](https://universal-blue.org/documentation.html)
- [Scope document](https://universal-blue.org/mission.html)

Commit message:

patches to support trunk os
Signed-off-by: Erik Hollensbe <git@hollensbe.org>

README.md, after:

# Trunk

This is a fork of ublue-main to support trunkos development

All custom tasks are in a makefile. You will need several tools to use them:

- `just`: `cargo install just`. Requires a [rust environment](https://rustup.rs). Use a package if you can.
- `podman`: redhat container tool. Use a package.

## Make tasks

To run these takes, use `make <taskname>`. Combine them for ease, e.g.: `make clean image run-raidz`.

- clean: remove all lingering disk images
- clean-image: remove system images
- clean-extra: remove extra images (simulates local disk in hardware)
- raidz-images: generate 4 images which should be detected and built as a raidz when booted with `make run-raidz`
- mirror-images: generate 2 images which should be detected and built as a mirror when booted with `make run-mirror`
- single-image: generate a single image which should be detected and built as a single-volume zpool when booted with `make run-single`
- run: run a qemu VM with just the system image and no extra images. **NOTE**: the system is currently configured to shut this host down as it assumes there is no real disk to provision.
- run-single: run a qemu VM with a single extra drive. The ZFS step should create a zpool and mount it under /trunk, create several datasets and volumes and mount them within the filesystem.
- run-mirror: run a qemu VM with a 2 extra drives. The ZFS step should create a mirrored zpool and mount it under /trunk, create several datasets and volumes and mount them within the filesystem.
- run-raidz: run a qemu VM with a 4 extra drives. The ZFS step should create a raidz zpool and mount it under /trunk, create several datasets and volumes and mount them within the filesystem.
- build-container: builds the container image from instructions; this will be used to create the final disk image.
- generate-image: (re)create a raw and qcow2 VM image from the container image
- image: combination of build-container and generate-image
